---
title: Azure free account management
layout: post
tags: ['azure','faq','post']
---

This is not about Nightscout per se, but about maintaining your free
Azure account.

This applies only to people following Azure instructions from February
and March, April, but is useful in understanding how Azure charges for
free accounts.  These kinds of pricing/billing procedures are common
among "cloud providers," let this serve as a detailed guide of Azure
services, circa `2014-05-25`.

There are other providers as well, also with free accounts.

## Is Azure free account working?

Nightscout probably just stopped working for you.  Here's why:

> Circa `2014-05-25`, a month ago would be ~ `2014-04`, April.

### Background

We set these up a month ago with the free trial version.  You put in
your credit card information.  What we missed is the fact that the free
trial expires after a month and doesn't convert automatically to the
"pay-as-you-go" version.  This is not a big deal because the daily use
of Nightscout still falls under the "free use" tier 99% of the time.
The only time it goes above this tier is when the alarm mp3s play over
and over again.  This has happened to us 3 times, always when `PWD`
has gotten out of range of the uploader and `...` was high or low at
the time, resulting in persistent alarms.  Nighscout contributors are
working on a permanent fix for this problem, likely involving the
addition of a simple browser cache expiry tag in the code.

So:

## Fixing/ Logging in

Do you have an Azure account?  Do you have an `@outlook.com` email
account specifically set up for Nightscout?  Did you free trial
expire?

You may have to talk to a live human at Microsoft.  Please let us know
on email if you do not.

Please log in to the outlook email accounts we set up for each of you,
and follow the instructions to convert to the "pay-as-you-go" version.
The email addresses and passwords are in the emails we just sent
separately.

Login at http://www.windowsazure.com with the azure username /
password for your "nightscout credentials" email.  You might have an
`@outlook.com` address associated with your nightscout.  Then call
`(800) 642 7676` with your username info close at hand, then ask them
to "convert my free trial subscription to a pay-as-you-go subscription
so that my nightscout website will start working again".

In a perfect world, nightscout will just start running again.  If not,
please drop your favorite Nightscout contributor an email and we'll
figure it out.


## How do free trials work?  Why did it expire?

The free trial for Azure lasts a month.  Sometime before the trial
ends, the subscription needs to be converted over to "pay as you go"
or the website will stop working.  After conversion, go in to
manage.windowsazure.com, click on the nightscout website, click on
"SCALE", and select the FREE web hosting plan mode.  then click save
at the bottom. 

Once the free trial is over, we need to subscribe to some other kind
of "subscription."  We will choose `pay as we go` and aim to keep our
usage under the Free watermark for usage.

### Credit card for my free use?

Don't be concerned about credit card bills - this will still stay free
unless you start hosting a big data machine learning competition on
azure.  Little 'ole Nightscout doesn't use much bandwidth or CPU.
This not a big deal because the daily use of Nightscout still falls
under the "free use" tier 99% of the time.  The only time it goes
above this tier for us is when the alarm mp3s play over and over
again.  This has happened 3 times, always when `PWD` has gotten out of
range of the uploader and `[...]` was high or low at the time,
resulting in persistent alarms.  we would love to permanently fix for
this problem, likely involving the addition of a simple browser cache
expiry tag in the code (there is no need to re-send the big mp3 file
at every alarm).

## Pay as you go?

Sometimes this is called, eg by Amazon, "micro-payments", we will aim
to keep our usage low enough to stay in the free tier.
Once again don't be concerned about credit card bills - this will
still stay free unless you start hosting a big data machine learning
competition on azure.  Little 'ole Nightscout doesn't use much
bandwidth or CPU.

