---
title: Welcome
layout: guide
pageOrder: 0
tags: ['guide','quickstart','post']
---

So you are thinking about a Nightscout rig?

## What is the Nightscout project?
Nightscout is an open source, `DIY` project.  There is no support or
any warranty of any kind.  The quality and performance of the project
is with you.

## Is this project for me?

No programming experience is required, but there are several caveats
to be aware of:

  * data may go missing without warning
  * data may be absent
  * data may be wrong
  * data may be delayed
  * you may void your warranty
  * you may break something

For all these reasons and more, it is important everyone carefully
consider whether or not this project is right for them.

Right now, the best way to prepare yourself for a project of this
nature is to follow the guidelines, to feel comfortable configuring
and installing your own rig.  Having this experience will prepare you
to get help from the entire community quickly.

There is a community on Facebook that with people from all experience
levels who will help you get up to speed on understanding and
installing.  Some may even help you experiment with new features, or
different deployment techniques.  While we love to see the diversity
and Nightscout ecosystem grow, it is important that when asking for
help, people who might provide you help need have an understanding of
how things have been set up for you.  If you departed from the
community guides, it will be harder for people to help, potentially
leaving you with less help if something breaks or needs to be
upgraded.

## What is required?

A **Dexcom receiver**, and a **smartphone supporting USB
OTG** support.  A special **USB OTG cable** allows the smartphone to
read and report Dexcom readings to the cloud.  The Dexcom USB port is
fragile and will break if you are not very very careful.  If you want
the uploading to work everywhere, the smartphone will need a cell data
plan.  The smartphone must support USB OTG.

The combination of the smartphone + Dexcom allows data to go to **a
website, which you (or a friend?) will set up and manage**.  It will be
your responsibility to make sure it continues to run.  Several details
need to be synchronized, using configuration menus in the UI, in order
for the system to work.  The website will display the data from the
cloud

So the minimum phone is a website managed by you, a smartphone, and a
Dexcom.  With these components, the CGM levels can be monitored from
anywhere in the world.  The website works on many other mobile
devices, tablets, laptops; the sole purpose is to display the data.

Following the step by step guides should help prepare you for putting
everything together and learning how to use the system.

